### Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering
This artifact was originally created as a part of the first core Computer Science course I took at SNHU, Introduction to Scripting.  It was the final project, which required the creation of a text-based game.  This game consists of a player character selecting options from a menu to navigate through the world and picking up items before encountering the enemy character.  It was a good introduction to software development and python and has a wealth of options for extension.  The enhancements I’ve performed on this project strive to demonstrate my ability to create software that solves complex problems in an organized and professional way.  I added some new features and functionality to broaden the scope of the artifact, but the biggest reason I chose this program for enhancement is that as the first I completed for the CS program, it was quite primitive in its execution.  As such, I used object-oriented programming best practices to break what was once a single file into a driver and four object classes, simplified functions to have a single purpose, and vastly improved documentation and style consistency. 

In creating this artifact, the primary course outcome I want to showcase is “Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices.”  To a lesser extent, I also wanted to highlight the “Employ strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision-making in the field of computer science.” course outcome.  For the first outcome, I’ve shown this using object-oriented programming and carefully designed data structures.  The second outcome is less obvious, but I feel the evidence for it appears in the more professional style and project portability.  If a different programmer were to be tasked with adding additional features, these qualities should help them to quickly understand my design choices and how to make meaningful changes. 

Overall, I enjoyed my time spent working on this artifact.  It was a good chance to work with Python again, especially given the relevance of this language in my planned career path of data analysis.  It also proved valuable to work on something that required a bit freer thinking and personal design, as I felt like many of the higher-level computer science courses were fairly rigid in how they presented their concepts.  In terms of challenges this project presented, the largest was the addition of the graphical map printing function.  I debated what data structures and information should be used to solve this task and feel as though I ultimately landed on a reasonable and efficient solution.  I look forward to spending more time with this project for the second enhancement. 

[Portfolio Home](../README.md)