### Enhancement Three: Databases
[Original Project Files] (https://github.com/Tomhotch1/Tomhotch1.github.io/tree/main/EnhancementThree/Original%20Project%20Files)
[Enhanced Project Files] (https://github.com/Tomhotch1/Tomhotch1.github.io/tree/main/EnhancementThree/Enhanced%20Files)

For the final enhancement category of databases, I have chosen to work on the final project from CS-340: Client/Server Development.  This project consisted of using the Python library PyMongo to interface with a MongoDB database running on a school virtual machine.  The code itself featured two parts: a class that connected to and queried the database, and a file that utilized these features to create a simple online dashboard using the plotly dash library.  The dataset was from information about animals taken into shelters in Austin, Texas.  This was a highly practical project, as it involved using database programming techniques to analyze data and present some data visualizations in a concise manner.  Since I ultimately hope to work as a retail inventory analyst, this is closely aligned with my career goals. 

For the enhancement itself, I first configured a new instance of MongoDB on my machine with Docker.   While Docker isn’t required for this project as I could have simply run MongoDB locally, I chose to use it as a learning exercise.  Docker provides a simple way to develop and deploy portable applications using virtual environments called containers.  Next, I downloaded a publicly available dataset of sales information from Walmart stores.  I imported this data into a MongoDB database and collection.  Once the data was in the database, I configured authentication and connected to the database with PyMongo.  Doing this is important for security, and in a production environment the authentication credentials would be collected via a user login.  Security wise, the CRUD module also utilizes parameterized queries to avoid bad actors using SQL injection like vulnerabilities.   Finally, I used dash to create a dashboard with two tables and four graphs of information that might be relevant to internal Walmart stakeholders.  

The data contains total weekly sales for 45 stores over the course of 2010, 2011, and most of 2012.  It also includes the unemployment rate, temperature, consumer price index, fuel price, and whether the week contained a holiday or not for each entry.  I chose to create two tables. The first gives the full set of data, with the date being converted to a year and week number.  The second is a table that shows the mean of each variable for each store, sorted by mean weekly sales in descending order.  For graphs, I created one graph that shows the weekly sales for a single store over the course of a year, with all three years displayed.  This allows for comparing sales growth within a store, which is a key performance metric.  The second graph is a bar graph that shows the total sales for the observed period for each store.  The third graph is the most unique, and it shows the correlation between each variable.  This is useful indicator because it shows the relative impacts that the variables have on each other.  It would be a great starting point for creating a regression model and conducting further analysis.  Lastly, I created a graph that shows the sum of weekly sales for all stores over time.  This is great for seeing longer term trends and really highlights the seasonality of Walmart’s sales. 

[Portfolio Home](../README.md)